README.md, before:

# Watch-Keeper

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper)
[![Dependabot Status](https://api.dependabot.com/badges/status?host=github&repo=razee-io/Watch-keeper)](https://dependabot.com)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/razee-io/Watch-keeper.svg?color=success)

Watch-Keeper is a tool that inventories and reports back the resources running on your cluster. Watch-Keeper works with [RazeeDash](https://github.com/razee-io/Razeedash) to display information about your resources.

## Install

### Via RazeeDash

1. [Install RazeeDash](https://github.com/razee-io/Razee#step-1-install-razee) or use a hosted razee such as [razee.io](https://app.razee.io).
1. Add your Github org to your razee.
1. Go to `https://<razeedash-url>/<your-org-name>/org` then copy and run the `kubectl command` against your new cluster to install the watch-keeper components.

### Manually

1. `kubectl create cm watch-keeper-config --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_URL=<path to razeedash api> --from-literal=START_DELAY_MAX=0`
    - eg. `kubectl create cm watch-keeper-config --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_URL=http://app.razee.io/api/v2 --from-literal=START_DELAY_MAX=0`
1. `kubectl create secret generic watch-keeper-secret --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_ORG_KEY=<plain text org api key to auth with razeedash>`
    - eg. `kubectl create secret generic watch-keeper-secret --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_ORG_KEY=orgApiKey-88888888-4444-4444-4444-121212121212`
1. `kubectl apply -f https://github.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper/releases/latest/download/resource.yaml`

## Collecting Resources

### Collection Methods:

1. Watches: this is where watch-keeper gets its name. Watch-keeper creates watches on any resource with the label `razee/watch-resource=<level>`, and reports to razeedash whenever a change occurs.
1. Polling: any resource with the `razee/watch-resource=<level>` label is reported. This is useful for resources that are not watchable.
1. Namespaces: you can gather info from a cluster by labeling a namespace with `razee/watch-resource=<level>`. This will collect and report all data within the labeled namespace at the desired `<level>`. See [white/black lists](#whiteblack-lists) to limit what is collected.

- Ex. `kubectl label cm my-cm razee/watch-resource=lite`

### Collection Levels:

1. `lite`: reports the resource `.metadata` and `.status` (where applicable) sections to RazeeDash.
1. `detail`: reports the entire resource to RazeeDash, but redacts all environment variables from resources and data values from ConfigMaps and Secrets.
1. `debug`: reports the entire resource to RazeeDash. All data is reported, including Secret values.

### Notes

1. `<levels>` must be lower case
1. Labeling namespaces, especially using the detail or debug level collections, can gather much more data than anticipated resulting in delays in data reporting.
1. Similarly,  delays can occur when reporting on a namespace with lots of resources (> thousand).

### White/Black Lists

You can white or black list resources by creating a ConfigMap named
`watch-keeper-limit-poll`, in the namespace your Watch-Keeper is running.

- When creating the ConfigMap for the first time, you will need to restart the
Watch-Keeper pods so that it can pick up the volume mount.
- If both a whitelist and blacklist are specified, only the whitelist will be used.
- The white/black list is employed during the **Polling** and **Namespace**
[collection methods](#Collection-Methods). Any individual resource specifically
labeled to be watched will still be watched, regardless of the white/black list.

#### Creating a White/Black List

- To create your white/black list, the ConfigMap will specify the kind of list
you want as the key, and the white/black list as a JSON string for the value.
- The white/black list itself is a JSON string:
  - The keys will be the `apiVersion` of the resource you want to add.
  - The value will be and array of the `kind`s of resources you want to add.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: watch-keeper-limit-poll
  namespace: <watch-keeper ns>
data:
  whitelist.json: |
    {
      "v1": ["Pod", "Service"],
      "apps/v1": ["Scale", "Deployment", "DaemonSet", "ReplicaSet", "Pod"]
    }
```

## Feature Intervals

Watch-Keeper collects and reports on data in a few different ways. Each of these ways is on a differently timed interval and affects when data populates/updates in RazeeDash. These intervals are configurable via environment variables defined in the deployment yaml (note: Intervals are in minutes and should follow: CLEAN_START_INTERVAL > POLL_INTERVAL > VALIDATE_INTERVAL).

1. Heartbeat: every heartbeat collects the user defined [cluster metadata](#cluster-metadata), the cluster id, and the cluster kube version, and sends the data to RazeeDash.
    - Timing: `1 minute` (non configurable)
1. Validate Watched Resources:  every `VALIDATE_INTERVAL` minutes, watch keeper will make sure it has a watch created for the resource kinds (eg. apps/v1 Deployment) that have at least one resource instance with the label. This means the first time you add the label to a previously unwatched resource kind, it could take up to `VALIDATE_INTERVAL` minutes to show in razeedash.
    - Timing: `VALIDATE_INTERVAL=10`
1. Poll labeled Resources: every `POLL_INTERVAL` minutes, watch keeper will find all resources with the `razee/watch-resource` label and send to RazeeDash, as well as find all namespaces with the `razee/watch-resource` label and collects/reports all resources within those namespaces.
    - Timing: `POLL_INTERVAL=60`
    - coming soon: RazeeDash will have a way to force a re-polling. This will be communicated during the heartbeat, and may take a minute to occur.
1. Clean Start: this is a housekeeping interval. It clears out all watches, and re-verifies watches it should have. Default is once a day.
    - Timing: `CLEAN_START_INTERVAL=1440`

## Cluster Metadata

You can add extra cluster metadata to send to RazeeDash. This can help differentiate clusters on RazeeDash and be more human readable than a uuid. To do this, add the label `razee/cluster-metadata=true` to a configmap. If the configmap contains the key `name`, RazeeDash will display the name instead of the uuid.

```shell
kubectl create cm my-watch-keeper-cm --from-literal=name=mySpecialDevCluster
kubectl label cm my-watch-keeper-cm razee/cluster-metadata=true
```

## Resource Metadata

You can add extra annotations to your resources in order to help the RazeeDash dashboard link to your change management system.

- Working with github:
  1. `kubectl annotate <resource-kind> <resource-name> "razee.io/git-repo=<github repo>"`
      - eg. `"razee.io/git-repo=https://github.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper"`
  1. `kubectl annotate <resource-kind> <resource-name> "razee.io/commit-sha=<github sha>"`
      - eg. `"razee.io/commit-sha=c6645609f8d3b8a48d53246fb7c1f6b60d054aef"`
  1. **Note**: We find it best practice to collect this info and add them to your resource yamls at build time instead of doing it manually on your cluster.
- Working with any change management system:
  1. `kubectl annotate <resource-kind> <resource-name> "razee.io/source-url=<fully qualified path>"`
      - eg. `"razee.io/source-url=https://github.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper/commit/c6645609f8d3b8a48d53246fb7c1f6b60d054aef"`
  1. **Note**: We find it best practice to collect this info and add them to your resource yamls at build time instead of doing it manually on your cluster.

Commit message:

Allow for polling of non namespaced resources (#87)
* Allow polling of non-namespaced resources

* Update readme for non namespaced feature

* Update unit tests

* update deps

* Update package.json

* Update package lock

* only need deployment

* Update .gitignore

* Update README.md

README.md, after:

# Watch-Keeper

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper)
[![Dependabot Status](https://api.dependabot.com/badges/status?host=github&repo=razee-io/Watch-keeper)](https://dependabot.com)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/razee-io/Watch-keeper.svg?color=success)

Watch-Keeper is a tool that inventories and reports back the resources running on your cluster. Watch-Keeper works with [RazeeDash](https://github.com/razee-io/Razeedash) to display information about your resources.

## Install

### Via RazeeDash

1. [Install RazeeDash](https://github.com/razee-io/Razee#step-1-install-razee) or use a hosted razee such as [razee.io](https://app.razee.io).
1. Add your Github org to your razee.
1. Go to `https://<razeedash-url>/<your-org-name>/org` then copy and run the `kubectl command` against your new cluster to install the watch-keeper components.

### Manually

1. `kubectl create cm watch-keeper-config --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_URL=<path to razeedash api> --from-literal=START_DELAY_MAX=0`
    - eg. `kubectl create cm watch-keeper-config --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_URL=http://app.razee.io/api/v2 --from-literal=START_DELAY_MAX=0`
1. `kubectl create secret generic watch-keeper-secret --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_ORG_KEY=<plain text org api key to auth with razeedash>`
    - eg. `kubectl create secret generic watch-keeper-secret --from-literal=RAZEEDASH_ORG_KEY=orgApiKey-88888888-4444-4444-4444-121212121212`
1. `kubectl apply -f https://github.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper/releases/latest/download/resource.yaml`

## Collecting Resources

### Collection Methods:

1. Watches: this is where watch-keeper gets its name. Watch-keeper creates watches on any resource with the label `razee/watch-resource=<level>`, and reports to razeedash whenever a change occurs.
1. Polling: any resource with the `razee/watch-resource=<level>` label is reported. This is useful for resources that are not watchable.
1. Namespaces: you can gather info from a cluster by labeling a namespace with `razee/watch-resource=<level>`. This will collect and report all data within the labeled namespace at the desired `<level>`. See [white/black lists](#whiteblack-lists) to limit what is collected.
1. Non-Namespaced Resources: you can gather info about resources that are not bound to a namespace by adding the key `poll` to the `watch-keeper-non-namespaced` ConfigMap. See [Non-Namespaced Resources](#non-namespaced-resources) for more info.

- Ex. `kubectl label cm my-cm razee/watch-resource=lite`

### Collection Levels:

1. `lite`: reports the resource `.metadata` and `.status` (where applicable) sections to RazeeDash.
1. `detail`: reports the entire resource to RazeeDash, but redacts all environment variables from resources and data values from ConfigMaps and Secrets.
1. `debug`: reports the entire resource to RazeeDash. All data is reported, including Secret values.

### Notes

1. `<levels>` must be lower case
1. Labeling namespaces, especially using the detail or debug level collections, can gather much more data than anticipated resulting in delays in data reporting.
1. Similarly,  delays can occur when reporting on a namespace with lots of resources (> thousand).

### Non-Namespaced Resources

In order to avoid having to label each individual non-namespaced resource (eg. nodes, namespaces, customresourcedefinitions),
we allow polling of all non-namespaced resource. This mechanism is similar to how our namespace resource collection works,
where you can label a namespace and we collect all the resources within that namespace for you; you can think of this like you are labeling the `non-namespaced-resources` namespace.

Also similar to how you can label a namespace, there may be resources that you do not want to collect (eg. storageclass), so
you should use [white/black lists](#whiteblack-lists) to limit what is collected. Note: using the white/black list will
affect all resources polled, namespaced and non namespace.

### White/Black Lists

You can white or black list resources by creating a ConfigMap named
`watch-keeper-limit-poll`, in the namespace your Watch-Keeper is running.

- When creating the ConfigMap for the first time, you will need to restart the
Watch-Keeper pods so that it can pick up the volume mount.
- If both a whitelist and blacklist are specified, only the whitelist will be used.
- The white/black list is employed during the **Polling** and **Namespace**
[collection methods](#Collection-Methods). Any individual resource specifically
labeled to be watched will still be watched, regardless of the white/black list.

#### Creating a White/Black List

- To create your white/black list, the ConfigMap will specify the kind of list
you want as the key, and the white/black list as a JSON string for the value.
- The white/black list itself is a JSON string:
  - The keys will be the `apiVersion` of the resource you want to add.
  - The value will be and array of the `kind`s of resources you want to add.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: watch-keeper-limit-poll
  namespace: <watch-keeper ns>
data:
  whitelist.json: |
    {
      "v1": ["Pod", "Service"],
      "apps/v1": ["Scale", "Deployment", "DaemonSet", "ReplicaSet", "Pod"]
    }
```

## Feature Intervals

Watch-Keeper collects and reports on data in a few different ways. Each of these ways is on a differently timed interval and affects when data populates/updates in RazeeDash. These intervals are configurable via environment variables defined in the deployment yaml (note: Intervals are in minutes and should follow: CLEAN_START_INTERVAL > POLL_INTERVAL > VALIDATE_INTERVAL).

1. Heartbeat: every heartbeat collects the user defined [cluster metadata](#cluster-metadata), the cluster id, and the cluster kube version, and sends the data to RazeeDash.
    - Timing: `1 minute` (non configurable)
1. Validate Watched Resources:  every `VALIDATE_INTERVAL` minutes, watch keeper will make sure it has a watch created for the resource kinds (eg. apps/v1 Deployment) that have at least one resource instance with the label. This means the first time you add the label to a previously unwatched resource kind, it could take up to `VALIDATE_INTERVAL` minutes to show in razeedash.
    - Timing: `VALIDATE_INTERVAL=10`
1. Poll labeled Resources: every `POLL_INTERVAL` minutes, watch keeper will find all resources with the `razee/watch-resource` label and send to RazeeDash, as well as find all namespaces with the `razee/watch-resource` label and collects/reports all resources within those namespaces.
    - Timing: `POLL_INTERVAL=60`
    - coming soon: RazeeDash will have a way to force a re-polling. This will be communicated during the heartbeat, and may take a minute to occur.
1. Clean Start: this is a housekeeping interval. It clears out all watches, and re-verifies watches it should have. Default is once a day.
    - Timing: `CLEAN_START_INTERVAL=1440`

## Cluster Metadata

You can add extra cluster metadata to send to RazeeDash. This can help differentiate clusters on RazeeDash and be more human readable than a uuid. To do this, add the label `razee/cluster-metadata=true` to a configmap. If the configmap contains the key `name`, RazeeDash will display the name instead of the uuid.

```shell
kubectl create cm my-watch-keeper-cm --from-literal=name=mySpecialDevCluster
kubectl label cm my-watch-keeper-cm razee/cluster-metadata=true
```

## Resource Metadata

You can add extra annotations to your resources in order to help the RazeeDash dashboard link to your change management system.

- Working with github:
  1. `kubectl annotate <resource-kind> <resource-name> "razee.io/git-repo=<github repo>"`
      - eg. `"razee.io/git-repo=https://github.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper"`
  1. `kubectl annotate <resource-kind> <resource-name> "razee.io/commit-sha=<github sha>"`
      - eg. `"razee.io/commit-sha=c6645609f8d3b8a48d53246fb7c1f6b60d054aef"`
  1. **Note**: We find it best practice to collect this info and add them to your resource yamls at build time instead of doing it manually on your cluster.
- Working with any change management system:
  1. `kubectl annotate <resource-kind> <resource-name> "razee.io/source-url=<fully qualified path>"`
      - eg. `"razee.io/source-url=https://github.com/razee-io/Watch-keeper/commit/c6645609f8d3b8a48d53246fb7c1f6b60d054aef"`
  1. **Note**: We find it best practice to collect this info and add them to your resource yamls at build time instead of doing it manually on your cluster.
